Sitting on the toilet for long periods of time,
straining during bowel movements,
and chronic constipation
can all put pressure on the veins
in your anus and lower rectum.
The pressure can inhibit the flow of blood
so that the veins bulge or swell,
producing the condition known as hemorrhoids.
Some hemorrhoids are internal,
lying inside the rectum.
You can’t see or feel them
and since the area lacks pain receptors,
they usually don’t cause discomfort.
Other hemorrhoids, known as external hemorrhoids,
develop under the skin around the anus.
Pooling blood can form a lump or clot.
Straining also sometimes
pushes an internal hemorrhoid
through the anal opening.
These hemorrhoids often itch or bleed,
sometimes with severe pain and swelling.